/h/Chris/Datta/KriyaYoga/yoga_phil_notes.txt

Traditional Yogic Philosophy and Practice

four weekly Tuesday sessions, January 21-February 11, 7-8:30PM, room 207B
Instructor:  Chris Haynes, qualified Datta Kriya Yoga instructor,
chaynes@indiana.edu  

With a mix of presentation, discussion, and practice, these sessions offer
an introduction to the philosophy and practice of India''s yogic tradition.
This supports an integral spiritual worldview and practice which goes far
beyond the popular conception of Yoga.  Several forms of breath control and
meditation are introduced that are suitable for all abilities. 

-----------------------------------

SOUND

Sri Ganeshaya Namaha...

Welcome. I'm Chris Haynes. For most of my life I've been practicing various
forms of yoga and meditation. Since the year 2000 my spiritual mentor has
been H.H. S.G.S., a.k.a Swamiji. With those opening words in Sanskrit I
bring to mind with respect his tradition.

This series of four sessions is a brief overview of classic yoga philosophy
and introduction to its practice.  

Apologies to those who came last week when this event was cancelled due to
the weather. I attempted to email everyone that afternoon, but should have
made an effort to come anyway.

We'll add a session three weeks from today to make up for the lost
one. Actually, I'd like to add more sessions than that. My ideal would be
an ongoing traditional yoga group. We'll see later if there is enough
interest to support that and what timing would work best. 

Introductions: name, what you'd most like to get out of this series, 
and any particular interests, concerns or background you'd like to share.

Practicalities: breaks for motion and other needs, ending time, questions
and comments, open attendence. 

Balance of philosophy, practice and discussion: feedback may be needed, and
always much appreciated.

I’ll try to keep this practical “News you can use”, but it would help to
have some idea where this material comes from and my connection to it.

Much of this is derived from the yoga sutras of Patangali. This is the
original and still most important text of classical yoga, from about
200AD. Yoga grew out of the Vedic tradition of India, which is something
like 10,000 years old. 

Resources: yoga sutras books.

The Vedic tradition, Veda means knowledge, is the root of today’s Hinduism,
making it the oldest spiritual tradition in the world. The Budhist and Jain
religions also have yoga traditions that stem from the same root. And there
are many similarities between the yogic tradition and mystic traditions
within all the major religions, including Sufism within Islam, Kabalism
within Judaism, and some Christian monastic traditions. However, 
Yoga itself is not tied to any religion: there are some athiests and
agnostics within India's yogic traditional.

Sri Swamiji's formulation of yogic practice is known a Datta Kriya Yoga,
and I was qualified by Sri Swamiji as a DKY instructor three years ago.

The term Kriya Yoga was introduced by Patanjali in his Yoga Sutras.

Most of the classic works of Indian philosophy are written in the Sanskrit
language. Sanscrit is wonderfully expressive of these concepts and often
cannot be translated adequately. Many, like me, also believe it is an
exceptionally beautiful language. So I'll be using some Sanskrit
terms. Don't be concerned if they are confusing. The most important ones
will be repeated and you'll get familiar with them gradually. 

Like anything else in these sessions, if you still find it too much, or
would like clarification, please let me know. And I'm no expert in Sanskrit...

What is yoga according to Patanjali? 
first sentence: yogash citta vritti nirodhah

PATANJALI: abhyaasa vairaaghaabhaam tannirodhah I.12
    practice and detachment are the means to still the fluctuations of
    consciousness (focus and let go)

VAIRAGYA: dispassion, detachment
    He who binds to himself a joy 
    Does the winged life destroy; 
    But he who kisses the joy as it flies 
    Lives in eternity's sun rise. 
    -- William Blake

ABHYASA: a consistent spiritual practice done regularly for a long time
(saadhana)

Ship drifting needs an anchor before long.

Types of anchors: mantra, visualization, ... but not meaning, present moment

Exercise: breath as anchor, observing breath meditation
- become a conosour of breath, explore interior landscape
- constantly changing
- tied to subtle energy movement in the body
- consistent attention, and letting go (abhyasa and vairagya)

What to do with thoughts?
- Retain (follow) no thought
- Resist (supress) no thought
- React (respond emotionally) to no thought

Stilling the mind is HARD: endless insults

How do we know we're making progress?
- Absorption in the present moment
- Slow it down: fewer thoughts
- Experience thought at subtler levels: fainter thoughts
- Less attachment to thoughts: let them go, rather than following them
- Less aversion to thought
- Less reaction to thought

Key element: witnessing thoughts

Controlling breath: deep, slow, smooth, quiet

Posture

Physiology of breath 

PATANJALI

The state of yoga: II.2 Yogas chitti vritti nirodah [sp?]
  (later deeper meaning: samadhi)

Means to yoga: I.12 abhyaasa vairaaghaabhaam tannirodhah 
  practice and detachment are the means to still the fluctuations of
  consciousness (focus and let go)

Practice of kriya yoga: II.1 tapa swaadhyaaya iswara pranidhaanaani kriya yogah
  Kriya Yoga is the acts of yoga are self-discipline, self-study and devotion

  Tapas: Self-discipline
    reverse outward, disperisve tendency of the mind to an inward focused mind
    literally "heat"
    stand your ground

  Self-study: Swadhyaya: "The unexamined life is not worth living" -- Socrates

  Iswarea pranidhana: devotion: opening ourselves to a higher power
    AA: belief in a power greater than ourselves

II.29

ASHTANGA YOGA: 8 limbs of yoga. First 4 outer limbs govern worldly behavior

yama: right with others
    ahimsa: non-harming 
    satya: truth
    asteya: non-stealing
    brahmacharya: sensory (esp. sexual) restraint
    aparigraha: non-possessiveness

niyama: right relation with ourselves
    shaucha: cleanliness (of mind, speech and subtle and gross body)
    santosha: contentment
    tapas: austerity
    svaadhyaaya: self examination, introspection
    ishvarapranidhana: constant meditation on, and offering ones action to, the Lord

asana: posture

pranayama: breath control

Inner limbs express progressive inward states of consciousness, from sense
withdrawal to samadhi: mental absorption pure spirit

niyama: governing our spiritual practice

Sheaths: nested shells around our true selfs
    anna
    prana
    mano
    vigyana
    ananda
  sat
  chit

Who am I? Who do I think I am?

My neck is stiff. My arm is strong. : Physical sheath (body of food)
I feel energized. I feel tired. : Subtle energy sheath (life energy)
I am distracted. I hear you. : Mental sheath (observes and processes senses and memories)
I am determined. My mind is like a monkey. : Intellect sheath (guides, witnesses)
I feel wonderful, without cause. : Bliss sheath (ananda)
I have an experiential knowing that my being and consciousness are one with all.
Relation to 3 bodies: sat, chit, ananda

Attachment to the FRUITS OF ACTION

ATTACHMENT to anything

DISCRIMINATION

DISPASHION

REAL = NON-CHANGING

CONSCIOUSNESS - consciousness is all that is real

MAYA (illusion): every changing, unreal, like a dream

IDENTIFICATION with our body and mind

Three gunas.

Sri Swamiji:

It is a journey where 
you begin to unlearn all that you have learnt, 
you begin to lose rather than gain, 
you begin to give rather than take, 
you begin to accept rather than react, and 
you begin to Be rather than become. 
Follow up: practice, philosophy, scripture


Arishadvargas - inner enemies

kama — lust
krodha — anger
lobh — greed
moha — delusory emotional attachment
mada or ahankara — pride, hubris
matsarya — envy, jealousy

SURVEY
more, same, less
  practice
  discussion
  philosophy
