Capture audio
  start applications/soundflower/flowerbed.app
  settings > audio > output Soundflower (2ch)
  Audacity 2ch input

Max app: bulk file format conversion

------------

Move mp3 to podcasts in itunes:

To make mp3 files into podcasts:

First, in itunes, find the mp3 file(s) in the music section, and hit edit,
then delete. It will tell you that 
it will remove it from itunes and the iphone, click OK.
Then it will ask you if you want to put the file in the trash or keep the file
in the music folder. Keep the file. This will remove it from itunes, and
the iphone, which is what you want.  

Second, open up a finder window on the mac. Navigate to the itunes music folder,
which is in machd/users/johnsmith/music/itunes/itunes music. Then open
another finder window alongside the one that is showing the itunes music
folder. In that finder window, create a unique named new folder on the
desktop, such as "movedmusic". Now, go to the itunes music folder and drag
the mp3 file over to the "movedmusic" folder and drop it there. Now, the
mp3 file is no longer in itunes at all. 

Third, go back to itunes main screen, click File, then "add to library". It
will open a mini finder window of it's own. Navigate to the "movedmusic"
folder you created on your desktop and select the mp3 file, and let it
import into itunes.  Don't worry about where itunes puts it. iTunes will
put it in "songs", but that is ok. It is still seen as "new" to itunes.

Fourth, go to the "music" at the top left of itunes menu. Find the newly
imported mp3 file. Right click and select "get info". Open "options" and
change it from "music" to "podcast" and hit OK. Now, you will see it
disappear from the main screen in music. Go to podcasts on the left menu,
and it will now be in podcasts. But WAIT! There is one more step to do or
it won't sync to your iphone. Now go to the iphone on the left hand menu
and select it under "devices". Then go to the iphone's "podcasts" tab, and
you'll see the mp3 file you just added as a podcast. Make sure you put a
check in the checkbox, that will tell itunes to sync your newly added mp3
PODCAST to your iphone. Then go over to File at the top of itunes and
select "sync iphone". After the iphone syncs, your mp3 will be on your
iphone in the podcast menu, and not in the songs menu! 
  
